[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium,
James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And thank you very
much for joining me
on Spirit Talk, where I take
you one step closer to heaven.
I like your enthusiasm.
Very, very good.
Today I thought we'd talk
about a subject which I just
wrote a book about and
it's called The Soul.
So many of us hear
about the term the soul,
but we really don't know
sometimes really what it means.
What does it mean, the soul?
So what do you think
the soul means?
Just jump-- say it out loud.
The soul.
>>AUDIENCE: Your true being.
>>VAN PRAAGH: True being.
>>AUDIENCE: Your essence.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Essence.
>>AUDIENCE: Higher self.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Higher self.
>>AUDIENCE: Spirit.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Spirit.
A little different.
Consciousness.
Great.
So it's all of these things.
It's higher consciousness,
it's your true being,
it's the true
essence of yourself.
It's you beyond this personality
which you currently live in.
This is just a small part
of who you are as a soul.
As the soul, you are grander,
much, much bigger, much
more immense than just
this little physical body.
This is just a small
part of the soul.
I like to think of analogy that
the soul is like the water,
like an ocean, and this current
personality is like a wave.
Yes?
Isn't that interesting?
So your soul has lived
way, way beyond and way,
way in the future.
There's no, no ending.
It always has been
and always will be.
That is a soul.
And a soul tends
to, if you will,
incarnate in a
physical dimension,
in this three-dimensional world.
Or it can also incarnate
in other worlds,
in other star systems, in
other forms of being-- liquid,
gas, air.
Interesting, eh?
So we seem to put
limitations on the soul,
and the soul's way,
way beyond that.
For us today who are
watching the show and being
part of the show, let's just
say that your soul has indeed
spanned the breadth
of time and space.
And we as a soul have come back
through many, many lifetimes
of experiences.
It seems that the
soul can, let's say,
expand and grow based upon
the experiences it has.
Each soul-- I find this really,
really interesting-- before we
come back into the
incarnation, we will sit down
with our counselor, our
spirit counselors, our guides,
our teachers, and we will
really have a soul connection
with them and go over our soul
review and our soul blueprint,
if you will, for
the next lifetime.
So you will have laid before
you different experiences
that your soul will go through
in the upcoming life in order
for you to learn and to expand.
And each soul comes back
with different soul lessons.
So one soul might come back
to learn about forgiveness.
So a lot of the
lessons in their life
might be situations where
you have to forgive somebody.
How many have had that lesson?
Hello, all raise your hands.
Hello.
Forgiveness.
Forgiveness, right?
Forgiveness, it's a big one.
It's a big soul lesson.
Compassion, another one.
Compassion.
Having a passion.
When someone does you wrong,
what's the right thing to do?
Turn around, have compassion.
Because we never know what
that person's backstory is.
Everybody has a history.
And we really should not judge
somebody, because sometimes we
don't know what
their history is.
So compassion is
another soul lesson.
Forgiveness,
compassion, and what's,
of course, the number
one soul lesson
that we come back to
learn and to experience?
>>AUDIENCE: Love.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Love.
Love is our natural
soul's energy.
It's a natural soul's
language, is love.
And love-- see, I'm
going to crying now
when I talk about
love-- because love
is such a high
vibrational frequency.
Everything is energy.
Energy basically means
molecules that vibrate or move
at a certain rate of speed.
You are made-- your
soul is made of love.
OK.
It's way beyond
this personality.
You encompass everything.
That is pure love.
Love permeates everything.
Love is God, and God is love.
I don't necessarily
believe in a religious god,
I believe God is
everything, omnipresent.
I believe God should be-- I
think God should be the word--
the initials ONE.
God-- omnipresent
nurturing energy.
And to me, that's
what I believe God is.
I think God is everything.
I think God is way beyond
the human comprehension.
And you as soul will
really come back lifetime
to lifetime to learn your
soul lessons and to really,
if you will, integrate
that loving energy,
that God energy into your
soul in each lifetime.
And also, very important, to
recognize that soul's energy,
that God love, that one
love in every single person
who you meet upon your path.
Cool, huh?
Yeah!
And then when it's
time for your soul
to graduate-- because this
is really our school room.
We come back to learn.
Our soul comes back here to
learn many lessons, of course,
to perfect lessons, soul
lessons, if you will.
And sometimes you pass
those lessons in a lifetime.
Sometimes you may not.
We're always given-- in our
blueprint of that life--
we're always given
a various situation.
It will show itself, a
scenario will show itself.
But we all have
the free will, how
we're going to deal
with that situation.
Yes?
Are we going to use
love for a situation,
or are we going to use fear?
It is up to your soul
to decide which one.
And I believe that
lifetimes of experiences
will ignite your soul to
use the right choi-- make
the right choice
using love not fear.
It seems we use fear-- it's
false ego appearing real.
I talk about this all the time.
And sometimes as humans,
we get caught so much up
in the human self that we get
caught up in the fear self.
And that's not, as I
said, your true self.
Your true self is soul.
That's your love.
Love is soul, soul is love.
That's who you are.
So today as we
come together, you
come here with lots of
lifetimes of experiences.
Everybody watching
this and everybody here
in the audience, everyone
here is different.
You might be sisters, you
might be husband and wife,
you might have come
together as friends.
But every single
person is unique.
And every single person
has their own blueprint.
I often think that the soul is
also the fingerprint of God.
I like to say that as well.
Each one is unique.
Each soul is very
unique and each self
comes back with its gifts,
its abilities, its lessons.
So that's really
what it's about.
And when I contact
other souls, you
have to realize that the soul--
part of the soul is the mind.
So at death what
happens, the brain
dies with the physical body.
Because the brain is part
of the physical body.
So what continues on
is the mind-- the mind,
which stores all the
memories, all the
experiences you ever had in
this three-dimensional physical
world.
So when souls wish to
communicate through me, what
happens is I open
myself up to a soul.
Whichever soul comes in,
I'll just open myself up
and the soul will
walk into my space.
And they will start to
transmit, if you will,
information-- memories,
emotions, feelings,
the memories of
scenes that you used
to live that that
soul experienced
with you, with your soul.
The connections that you
have, the relationships
that you have.
So it's really
soul-to-soul communication.
Because it's the soul
mind-- their mind--
is communicating with
my mind, sending me
thoughts and feelings.
So it's soul-to-soul
communication.
And that's how it works.
And I am going to communicate
with the discarnate soul, which
means they're out of this
physical, three-dimensional
body.
They're beyond that.
Yeah?
So I can also read you, as
far as a soul right now,
which I'm going to
do in a few seconds,
and see what it's
like as I can tell,
your soul, the essence of your
being, the purity of who you
are, maybe abilities and gifts
that I see but you're not
aware of yet.
So we'll do that
in a few seconds.
Yes.
So before I start
that, I'm going
to do a soul-to-soul reading.
Before we do that, any
questions before we start?
Yes, ma'am.
You have a question.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
you were talking
about the soul blueprints.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Do you
get that as you're
transitioning from
dying to the next step?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So what happens is this.
Before you come back
into this incarnation--
so before you came
back to birth--
you really sat down with your
counselors and your spirit
guides, and you really
looked at your life
that you've just lived--
or the lifetimes you just
lived-- which brought you
up to a certain point.
And you see the lessons
that you learned
and the ones you didn't learn.
Maybe in another
lifetime, oh, I should
have should show more
compassion at one point.
Ooh, I should have been
more trusting at one point.
Ooh, I should have loved
myself a little more.
So what happens is, you may have
to come back in this lifetime
to perfect that.
So that's the blueprint
that you set up.
It's almost like a curriculum
that your guides, your teachers
help you set up-- you
being the student--
and they help you set
up in this lifetime
and look at the various
scenarios, and so forth.
>>AUDIENCE: Because
what I was wondering
is I saw somebody a couple
weeks before they passed away.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: And their mouth
was opening and closing,
and the hospice people were
saying that that happens.
Yeah.
And I was like, I
wonder if they're
doing some kind of talking with
God, going over their next--
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: In that
kind of what you're
saying-- reassessing
their lives.
>>VAN PRAAGH: From
my understanding,
it's when we leave the
physical body in totality--
that the so-called dead, that
they're no more a sense of life
in that physical shell-- it's
when you're in the other world.
It's in the spirit
world, after you've
had your memorial
service and your funeral,
then you go to the
other side of life.
And that's when you
have a life review
and you see different things.
And there'll be a little bit of
time spent in the spirit world.
You don't come right
back, many times.
Most times you spend over
there, that's our home.
This is not our home.
And most of us don't want
to come right back here.
Hello.
Would any of you want
to come right back here?
I don't think so.
Right?
In 30 years, I've
never had a spirit say,
I want to come back.
I miss that body.
I miss that disease,
I miss the sickness.
Never once.
So we really don't
rush back here.
It seems sometimes the souls
that come back earlier seem
to be the ones either suicide or
maybe children that die early.
They tend to come back
earlier, it seems.
But most of us want
to stay over there.
And we'll go from our next life,
we'll see what's before us.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
Cool.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I also
want to point out-- thank
you very much-- I also want
to point to a lot of you,
many people talk about
soul mates and soul groups.
And I know someone
over here was going
to ask a question
about soul mates.
I know.
I know you were because
I'm psychic, right?
You were going to
ask that question.
I knew you were.
I'll answer it for you
without even asking it.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're welcome.
So many people think,
you know, soul mates--
do I have a soul mate?
Yes, you do have a soul mate.
And many people think of a
soul mate as just one soul.
It's someone you could be
married to, or as a partner,
or so forth.
Not necessarily true.
A soul mate or soul
mates, as I should say,
are those souls who you've
shared many lifetime
experiences with.
You've come back and
learned many lessons with.
You've taken many
classes together.
And you really have an
affinity with each other
because you've learned together
over the many eons of time.
So those are soul mates.
And you know that.
Because when you met somebody--
and a lot of-- everybody here,
in your lifetime, you met
somebody and you feel,
oh, I know that person.
I feel like I know them
from the inside out.
There's a connection I
have with that person.
And also places
that you've been.
You go to certain locations,
like, I've been here before.
I feel a connection here.
I've had that happen more
with friends, that connection,
than necessarily with family.
They feel very much--
you've had that.
They feel like, oh, I know them.
They're part of me.
That's a soul mate.
And we tend to come
back-- when we're
researching our
incoming life-- we
tend to-- hold on, slow down.
Spirit's already coming in.
Slow down.
They're already
lined up behind me.
[LAUGHTER]
If they push me off
the stage, you'll know.
So what happens is we tend to
come back with our soul mates,
but soul groups also.
So soul groups are family
members and friends,
and those beings--
those souls-- who
choose to come back
and have lifetimes
with-- lifetimes of experiences.
And each lifetime, we
take on different roles
in that soul group.
So not only can you
evolve-- your soul
can evolve individually--
but you also
evolve as a group, soul group.
So in one lifetime,
you might be the mother
and that person might
be the daughter or son.
Another lifetime, they'll be the
child, you'll be the parents.
You switch roles.
And it's very much
like Shakespeare said,
the world is a stage and
we're merely players upon it.
That's really the way it is.
So start looking at
yourself as a soul having
a human experience, not
the other way around,
because it's
really, really true.
Another one more question?
Yes, young lady.
Would you like to stand
up and ask your question?
>>AUDIENCE: So in the
realm of soul groups,
can that include a
pet in your family?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
for sure, animals.
Of course they're
souls, of course.
And you souls have been
together in lifetimes.
Now have you been an
animal in another lifetime
that's been a human?
When I first started
doing this work,
I used to think that there's a
separate kingdom for animals--
there's animal souls--
and a separate kingdom
for physical, human souls.
And that's the way I
thought for a long time.
And I asked a friend
of mine about that,
or I was talking about it.
And my friend, who is
also a healer, and she
said, why do you limit the soul?
Why can't a soul be part
of that animal, the soul
be part of you?
And she said, think of it like
water and that water permeates
everything.
So why can't part
of your soul be
part of that animal right now?
And that animal be part of you.
I have two wonderful children--
two four-legged furry animals.
Boo Radley and Maisy May,
who I show on my Facebook
all the time.
They're my children.
And I know when I--
once I had-- there
was an accident,
I went to see-- I saw
this animal get killed,
hit by a car.
And I was really distraught.
And spirit said to
me, there's going
to be an animal sent your way
that's going to help you heal.
And I went down to the pound
there and I found Maisy May.
And it was really weird, as
it usually is when it's truth.
And I remember that when I
went down to the last kennel--
the last cage-- I look
and there's little
Maisy May with her
white furry self.
And she rolled over and
showed me her belly.
And I knew right away there
was an instant connection.
There was a soul connection
that I had with that dog.
And I'll tell you,
she really did
help save me as far as
healing me with that situation
that I witnessed several
weeks before when
I saw a dog get killed.
And so I always feel that.
And the more you can tune
into your soul self--
that essence of
being-- you really then
become aware of that soul
essence in every living thing.
So the other day I was
at a store checking out,
and there was an ant-- a little
ant-- walking on the platform
there.
And the cashier
said, oh, an ant.
And I said, yes, how
lovely that ant is.
Don't kill it-- because you
immediately want to kill it.
We're part of that soul.
That soul's part of us.
And we have to start thinking
that way maybe, and changing
our thoughts and
realizing that we're
a part of that soul essence.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
That explains a lot for me.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Explains a lot, right?
It's something to
think about, for sure.
So to show you how this works,
that I'm going to-- I just
want to start with doing
a soul-to-soul reading.
Which means that
my soul is going
to read the
incarnate-- your soul
within this physical
body-- and is just
going to start with that.
Is that OK?
Yes, so you wanted a
soul-to-soul reading, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, and
what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Diana.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So Diana.
So let me just connect with
you on a soul-to-soul level.
So as I read your soul, and
I intuitively read your soul,
my soul reads your soul.
And I will tell you that in this
lifetime when you've come back,
your soul's come back-- you've
always been a people person.
Can I just say that?
And you've always been a people
person in other lifetimes
as well.
You've been before
people, around people,
behind the scenes, in
front of the scenes.
And something which you really
have worked on on a soul level
is empathy.
>>AUDIENCE: Hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is empathy.
Empathetic work.
So I know that you would
have had very much an ability
and a gift, if you
will call it that,
to feel about other people
empathetically, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And to
feel sorrow and to be
emotional with other people.
In as much as in this
current lifetime,
you've had to learn
how to defend yourself
as far as feeling too much.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Absolutely, isn't it?
Because I know as you're young
girl, as a young girl first
coming into this physical body--
and I'd say really around two,
three, four, five years of age--
I'm always-- I'm totally open.
I'm completely open.
I'm feeling programs.
I'm feeling energy
from everywhere I look.
And I got to learn
how close it down.
Mommy, Mommy, help me, help me.
I don't know what to
do because I'm so open.
You're feeling things
left and right.
There would definitely have
been a love for animals as well,
and because animals
are unconditional love.
Yeah?
And you really are an
unconditional loving person.
Around the age of seven
or eight years of age,
unfortunately, you had to shut
down to that essence of truth
and start listening to what
was expected of you, like most
of us do in this life.
But you're also
extra empathetic.
Can I say that.
I would like to say with
you, you closed down empathy,
but you also could
open it up right away.
If you took a class in psychic
development, intuition,
open right up.
Because you're very intuitive.
You're very sensitive.
You're also a gifted
writer, so you
would like to express yourself
with the written word.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I know
you've have lifetimes
of expressing yourself
in the written word.
And also you would have
lifetime-- maybe not
in this current
one-- that definitely
would have been a
lifetime with color,
working with color and
art and aesthetics.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, especially.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know you've come back
with a sense of design.
And you could have had a
choice in your soul's career
in this lifetime
where there'd want
to be the empathetic self
working with that, working
with people, whether it's going
to be through medical work.
Understand, so you
could have gone
to college about
medical work or thought
about being in that
healing arts field.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And so I know that you come in
with that, as far as the soul
gift, the soul ability you have.
And that's going
to stay with you.
You've been-- many
lifetimes you've been there
in the healing arts, but
also psychology as well.
There could have been--
You understand that.
So you could have
done that as well.
And I would say in
this current lifetime,
your soul needs to express
itself to feel fully
fulfilled in working
with the healing arts,
in working with people,
empathy, helping people out
realize who they are.
You understand that.
And I know that you have a very
strong sense-- your soul has
a very strong sense
of you, who I am.
The funny thing is with
your soul, when you--
>>AUDIENCE: [LAUGHING]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I take
that as validation.
Because I know if someone
tells you differently,
and they don't see you for
who you are, you're like,
excuse me, that
doesn't work for me.
That's not who I am.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes, yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
know in prior lifetimes,
can I say it that way, that
you've had to defend your soul.
You defend who you are and
who you were in many times--
in your station, your situation.
And you've had to defend that.
And in this lifetime, no way.
They either love me for
who I am, or bye bye.
I am who I am.
I'm centered in who I am
and that's who you are.
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
>>AUDIENCE: Does
that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
You're very welcome.
You can applaud.
That's fine.
Good energy.
Not for me, but for her.
So I'd like to-- Let's go
over here with this lady here.
Would you mind if I give you a
quick soul-to-soul-- oh, great.
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
My name's Katie.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Katie.
OK, Katie.
Very nice.
I'm glad you're here.
I didn't think you
were going to be here,
but you're here,
which is important.
So interesting.
When your soul's come back
in this current lifetime,
I know family would have
been a major lesson for you.
So you've come back in a family.
And I'm not sure if
when you were younger,
there was a separation
of family and you
had to redefine family
in your own way?
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
And I know that when
you were a young girl,
you come in as a
teacher to the family.
I just got to say that.
And you're also a
very unique blueprint,
in that you do
things your own way.
And I know that the family
looks to you for decisions.
You came here as a very
mental type of person.
Decision making,
decision making.
And you're somebody
also that the colors
of your soul, there's a lot of
red, which is lot of energy.
There's also a lot of
yellow, which tells me
that you're a very
mental processor.
That you think, you think,
you think before you act.
And it's almost like, I have to
be very careful at what I do,
what I say before I do it.
And it's really a
process that you're
working through your mind
and through your head.
And you're a thinker.
Can I say that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I'll also tell you
that your soul came back
in this lifetime-- one
of the interesting lessons was
not to be so self critical.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: That makes
a lot of sense, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
know as your soul comes back
in this lifetime as
critical or self critical,
that it's put you in a
bad situation sometimes.
Limitation.
Can I say a limited
way of living.
A limited reality.
Can I just say that to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
it's almost like,
we have to remember that
thoughts are things,
and you created that reality
based upon self imposed,
because of your critical self.
And I also want you to know
that in this lifetime--
and it's a hard one for you, a
lesson, a very hard soul lesson
for you-- to really find your
voice and to express yourself.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
got to be very, very--
and you're afraid, fearful
to express yourself.
And you can't do that.
You can't do that.
Now, and would I be
correct if I would
say to you that your
mother and father had
a separation of some kind?
Would they get married in
the late '40s or early '50s?
>>AUDIENCE: Early '50s.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Early '50s.
Great, like '52 or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
That sounds right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because as
I look at that soul group
that you've come
in with, I tell you
that they're
together by a thread.
They go in and they go out.
They're together by a thread.
And I got to say that
there's true love there,
but a bit of the personality
has gotten in the way.
The impersonalities
have gotten in the way.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
just say that, OK.
And you can't be
everything to everyone.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Honor yourself.
Make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You got
to honor yourself.
And you can't be what
people want you to be.
You've got to be who you are.
So one of the major soul lessons
you've come back to learn
is really about expressing
who you are and honoring that.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Absolutely, great.
Don't be afraid.
So you're definitely
learning a lot lessons
in your soul about fear.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right?
>>AUDIENCE: Fantastic.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you sweetheart.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're welcome.
>>AUDIENCE: Appreciate it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
so what I'd like
to do with you now
is a soul meditation.
How's that?
A soul meditation,
where you will actually
start to experience
and have a relationship
with your inner soul, the
inner essence of your being.
OK?
So if you've never meditated
before, do not worry about it.
It's really just
focused awareness.
So I'd just like you
to close your eyes.
And you at home as well,
you can close your eyes
and just listen to the
music behind my voice.
Listen to the sound my voice.
Perfect.
Perfect, perfect.
And just with the
intention that you have,
just to explore and
to be open, to go
through the seas and the waves
of who you are as a soul who
have traveled many,
many lifetimes,
many, many places
to be here today.
Your soul has, definitely.
Just connect, please, with
the sound of my voice.
And as you connect to
the sound of my voice,
it is probably a voice
you've heard many times,
in many lifetimes,
where you definitely
can feel or recognize the
tone of the voice you've
heard many times,
many lifetimes.
And just as you listen
to the sound my voice,
become mindful of your
feet on the floor.
Become aware of your
legs, your backs
on the chairs, your
shoulders and your arms,
your neck and your head.
And just be aware
as a soul being,
you are so much more than
just this human shell.
Your soul has lived.
There is no death.
There's just expressed
life in many ways.
Your soul is also part of
a multi-vast dimension,
multi-universes,
multi-dimensions.
And just be aware of
that at this moment.
We are part of a lovely,
lovely world of light,
of golden light.
Some call it the
spiritual dimensions.
But you right now exist
in many, many levels.
But together, let's connect
that golden light dimension.
So with your mind, the great
creator, the mind, the soul--
the soul has done
this many times--
let's use our
imagination and envision
a bright, bright golden
light far, far above us.
As far as you can imagine
is this golden light.
And feel the warmth of the
spiritual, golden light
for it's a greater world, a
greater realization, a greater
dimension, and the
essence of we are.
And just right now,
as you hear my voice,
imagine a string of
this golden light--
a cord of this golden light
dropping down and connecting
with the top of your head.
And as this golden light--
this cord of golden light
drops down into the
head, it fills up
your body-- the human body--
with this golden light,
bathing every cell
with golden light,
every muscle with golden light,
every organ with golden light
of the spirit.
And take a deep breath,
and exhale and let go.
Let go so you can open up
those veils and receive more.
Good.
And again.
And inhale that golden light.
And exhale.
Let go of all the old stuff.
Open up those veils.
Open up those doorways to
the essence of your being.
And then one more
time and inhale.
Hold it-- two, three, four.
And exhale.
Let it go.
And I just would
like you to stay
in the position
right in your heart.
The heart.
This is a center
of your soul being,
right there in the heart.
And just among yourself,
just feeling, no judgment,
no judgement whatsoever.
Just be in that heart
space, in your soul space.
And begin to communicate
with your soul.
With your soul.
And as you communicate
with your soul,
let it bring to you and
to human comprehension
the essence of your soul,
the gifts of your soul.
The limitations the human
places upon its soul.
Feel the emotional
aspect of your soul.
And as you sit in
this space, also
become aware of the human level.
What lessons is your soul
learning in this lifetime?
What soul lessons
have you decided
to come back and learn
in this lifetime?
And just let that drop
into your consciousness,
drop into your mind.
And just sit with
that and enjoy.
Enjoy the revelation, for the
knowledge is always there.
You just have to
open up the door.
They're a truth
to our awareness.
And let the soul express in
our thoughts, in the mind,
to reveal those lessons
it's come back to learn.
And as we sit within
that space and you
become so aware of the
revelations of the lessons
you've come back in this
current lifetime to learn,
we ask divine
heavenly parent, we
ask your blessing upon
this meeting today.
Dear spirit friends,
draw near to me.
Spirit friends,
speak clear to me.
Spirit friends, slow
down your voices.
When we hear, the
heart rejoices.
Give us glimpses of eternity.
Let us know that you are free.
Give us names and
facts and places.
Help us to understand
heaven's graces.
Send your thoughts upon me
with emotion and simplicity,
as we sit together in
peace, love, harmony.
And so it is.
And thank your soul.
Appreciate your soul.
Love your soul.
You've come back to
this human level.
It's a hard school.
Give yourself credit.
Give yourself a pat on the back
for taking these challenges
in this human school.
It's not easy, but
you're doing it.
You're doing it.
So give yourself credit.
And take a deep breath.
And exhale.
And slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
OK.
Well, I know everyone
at home who's
watching this definitely
got something,
because I could feel it.
I got something.
And everybody here
in the audience
I bet you all got something.
Yes?
Because I could tell-- you
kind of went uuuuh deep, deep
into it.
And did anybody have
any lessons that you
were, that surprised
you at all, that
came to the surface of your
mind that you didn't expect?
Anybody?
What did you get?
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
I got that, as much as I think
I've worked on forgiveness,
boy, I have a ways to go still.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
It's our school room here.
And we're always working,
we're always learning.
And it's really, really
true-- I'm learning it, too.
I'm learning it, too,
It's a day-to-day thing.
And if, again, if you get
back into that essence,
of that sense of "I'm a soul,
and my soul is learning.
My soul."
And the forgiveness
thing is hard,
but it really does matter.
If you could start
looking at it by saying,
I want to treat that person
as I want to be treated.
So maybe they didn't understand.
Maybe it was a wrong message.
Maybe they didn't
mean to do that.
Maybe there's something
in their background
that caused them to manifest
this in a certain way.
I've got to be better than.
I've got to be higher-- look
at it from a higher way.
Take the high road.
Less traffic.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, that's right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
it's really true.
And forgiveness-- great lesson.
A lot of us are learning
forgiveness, that soul lesson.
But I think the number
one way of learning
that is number one,
being aware of it.
So you're aware of it
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Which is great.
Again, that could be the entire
reason why you're here today.
>>AUDIENCE: That could be it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That might be it.
And of course, this
will continue with you
when you leave these doors.
It will continue with you when
you finish turning this off,
it will continue with you.
So thank you very much.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So what
I'd like to do now
is I'd like to
step into my soul.
And I would like to have
another soul come forward to me
and present themselves to you.
And we'll see who comes in.
Is that all right?
OK, great.
So as I step into
my soul self, I'm
going to be aware that
a man comes in here.
This man feels like a father
figure coming close to me
on this side of me.
And I must go with, I'm
not feeling very, very
good toward my end of my life.
I know that this is brand new
for me as far as communicating.
And he's coming to
the side of the room
so, again, this is what
I'm feeling from this man.
And I know I'm a father here.
And I know this man
wants me to talk
about a specific hat or a cap
that he has-- that he had.
And I know there'd
be a photograph of me
with this hat or this cap on.
And I'm very aware of that.
I'm also aware of
this man's eating,
he's telling me that
the eating would
have been limited
before he passes
to the other side of life, that
the eating would be limited.
He couldn't eat that much,
and he can have as much food
as he likes right now.
I'm very, very aware that I
want to do things in his name.
I'm going to tell you
that, it's very strange.
I know April is very
significant when
I'm connecting
with this gentleman
and that's where
I'm going to go.
So I'm going to go over
to this side of the room.
I don't know if I'm back
here with this lady.
Did your dad pass over, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: May I come to you?
So you understand about
your dad passing over.
Do you understand then
about the food as well?
Or a problem with
eating before he passes?
>>AUDIENCE: He couldn't swallow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
couldn't swallow.
Thank you very much.
Because I know
that's significant
when he comes in about the food.
I know there'd tubes with
me at one point as well.
So I don't know if there's
IVs that this man would
have toward the end of his life.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that I want
to talk about-- he wants me
to talk about people coming
from different
parts of the country
or to come at the end to
see him at the funeral,
or toward the end of his life
and visit from other parts
the country.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would
he had have a son?
Do you have a brother?
>>AUDIENCE: I do have a brother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
because for some reason,
he wants to talk
about the brother--
significant about the brother.
And I know that when we're
younger, when he was younger,
there were some words exchanged
or some problems there
with his soul and your brother.
OK, the soul of your brother.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I would know
that those two guys are so much
alike in so many ways that they
dislike being so much alike.
And they would see the
other-- each-- characteristics
of each other within each other.
It makes sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And would you also know
that this man, would he
be in his early 70s
before-- when he passes?
>>AUDIENCE: He was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: About, like 72?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
Because that's-- and
how old was he then?
>>AUDIENCE: 72.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
So I'm just confirming
that it's him
and that I got him here with me.
And I know that there's dogs
around with this gentleman.
I know that he had a dog
at the end of his life
who'd meant something to him.
I know that this
dog, he's telling me,
would have passed over before
him or right before him.
I'm not sure about this.
Did I have to put
a dog to sleep?
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You did.
And was it around the time
of your dad's passing?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
I know that I have
the dog with me here.
So he's bringing
you the dog, OK?
And I know that you felt
this dog earlier today
when you were here.
You must have felt the
dog hop up on your lap,
because the dog was here.
I don't know if you
felt that or not.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You didn't.
The dog is definitely there.
And was this your
dog or his dog?
>>AUDIENCE: It was my dog.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your dog.
Great.
Would you know about having
to do the nails on the dog?
Trimming them?
>>AUDIENCE: She hated it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She hated it.
But didn't you insist upon
having the nails clean
and cleaning when
you had her cleaned,
and they had do the nails?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Remember that?
I know that I wanted to say
an appreciation for the dog.
And I know that at the
end of that dog's life,
there would have been
either one short leg,
or something about
the walking would
have been difficult, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, she had
trouble getting up the stairs.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So when she's walking, though,
I know that I'm limping
or I'm this way.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know it's the hind legs.
I know that Dad brings
the dog for you.
OK?
I would ask also would
there be two females,
as far as he's talking about
two girls or two ladies.
So I don't know if she's
aware of two sisters?
>>AUDIENCE: I have two sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So there's two sisters on about.
And I'm very aware of that.
I know that some-- he used
to have a Chevrolet car.
So I'd say--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, he
was a cop, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He was a cop, OK.
Did he drive a Chevy
when he was a cop?
>>AUDIENCE: The
undercover car, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And do you remember
in-- yeah, go on.
So when the soul comes
back, they bring memories.
And I would ask
you, would you know
about riding in the back
of that car on the side.
Just, Dad, come on.
He's bringing me a memory
of you riding in the back.
>>AUDIENCE: We used to take
the dog to the park in the car.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, OK.
OK.
So this is the memory that is
coming about with that dog.
Now I know that your dad
does have a love of dogs.
I really do know he does.
And I got to tell you that
I would have known also
as this man comes close to me
that he was happy to be dead.
He's happy be dead.
He said, I wouldn't
want-- again,
I wouldn't want
to come back here.
He's very interesting.
And he never really would have
believed in life after death
per se.
But I got to tell you,
he certainly does now.
[LAUGHTER]
Otherwise he couldn't do this.
And I know that there's--
who was Catholic?
>>AUDIENCE: He's Catholic.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Did you have a funeral mass
for your father when he died?
>>AUDIENCE: We did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hmm.
And I know that there's
someone with the name of an "M"
name also that's
significant here.
So there would be a
woman with an "M" name.
And I don't know if
I'm with a Margaret
or Mary or this sort of a name?
And I feel like I'm
in the spirit world.
I'm on the side of
life, not on this side.
>>AUDIENCE: Hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Margarette.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Margarette.
Is that his mother?
>>AUDIENCE: Mary's his mother.
OK.
And she's on the
other side, isn't she?
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
See, the spirit world
does their part.
We have trouble-- The
living has to do their part.
So the soul of Mary,
his connection to her,
would be also coming in here
as far as-- very interesting.
And when I see that, and
you understand, acknowledge,
and they're coming so close
to me, I see like a horizon,
and beautiful lights
all around you.
And I know this lady
Mary-- you might never
had a great relationship or
really known her very well.
The lady, you wouldn't have
known her very well, did you?
>>AUDIENCE: She died
when I was a baby.
>>AUDIENCE: Perfect.
So you would not have
known her very well,
she's going on about.
And she wants me to know
that when she was alive,
she would be a stay-at-home
mom or a house woman,
of crafts, sew buttons, and
sewing things all the time.
That would be her thing.
And she said, stop
doubting-- what?
Stop doubting your-- ah.
Stop doubting your
own soul's journey
and stop doubting
who you're with,
or the situation you're
with right now in your life.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because she said, you
are where you're supposed to
be and stop doubting that.
Now I know that there
would be accommodation
from your father in
the police uniform.
And there'd be a picture of him.
And I know he would be
receiving something,
receiving an accommodation
or something.
And I know you're
very proud of that.
You understand that.
And I know that you're--
she's telling me--
the grandma's tell me that
and he's, oh, thank you.
He's very proud, too.
And you and your
sister definitely
need to get together
and be connected.
Is this your child over here?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
his granddaughter?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Both of them or one?
>>AUDIENCE: My niece.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Niece.
So I know that they come over
here, too, as well as for you.
And I know you either want to
write or do some more writing,
or do something
expressing yourself.
Make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
So continue writing and
you will go to college.
It's going to be
college is coming in.
I know you've been
thinking about that
and it's going to happen.
So I'll leave you at that, OK?
Thank you every much.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: God bless.
OK.
So I'm going to come here.
Your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: Laurie.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Laurie,
would you mind standing.
Can I come to you, please?
OK.
So your father's
passed over, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
And your father,
I'm going to talk
about he had trouble
with one leg.
>>AUDIENCE: He did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was there talk
about either getting a leg cut,
or amputee at one point?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was he-- was
he in a hospital for a while?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: How long?
>>AUDIENCE: A month.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So your Dad was
in the hospital for a month.
And was there-- He's talking
to me about being there,
but he's not aware of himself.
It's kind of like, he's being
in the hospital or a place
of being taken care of.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let's
put it that way.
Because I'm not going to
say totally a hospital,
but a place of
being taken care of.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And was it in
a different state, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
And wasn't there
another family member
who was there watching over
him or took care of him?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would you know
about your dad having a tattoo?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Uh-huh.
So I know that's significant
when he brings that in.
I know there would have
been time where there would
have been military in the past.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he
would have very much
related to that lifetime
in the military, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: For
some reason, I know
your father must come
through here today.
And his soul needs to resolve
some things with you--
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And with
other members of the family.
So I got to tell
you in some ways,
it isn't necessarily he's
coming for you today,
but it might be for other
members of the family, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you know
anyone named Jack or John.
>>AUDIENCE: A great
uncle of mine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: On the
other side with your dad?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would
you know if this John was
at your father's wedding when
your father first got married?
>>AUDIENCE: I recently
saw their wedding picture.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
He's just confirming
that you were with him.
He was watching you do that.
Now I know that mom
is having problems
with her own walking,
her own situation.
And I feel like I need to
just rest when I'm walking.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know when
you're there in the living room
as he brings me there,
that I'm walking around
and I have to rest a little bit.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm
very, very aware
also as he brings me into
that living room area
that there are two sitting rooms
at mom's place where she's at.
There's a sitting room
which is very important.
And I know that I go visit her
there with a television set.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now I know that
when your father comes in,
he was very relieved when he
passed to the spirit world.
I know there would have been
an operation or surgery ahead
of time.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that that was a big deal
for him and for the family to
go to be witness that surgery,
right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now I'm very aware
that he put that surgery off
for a long time.
Or he delayed that for
a while, is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that
the odds at the end
weren't great
after that surgery.
I know that I started going
downhill left that surgery,
because that's what
he's talking about.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that that
Jack or John person really
helped him out.
So I know that.
I know that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I want to also
talk about a porch that's open,
an open porch.
And would you have memories,
please, of the open porch?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he said you would.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He said you would.
Thank you very much, Laurie,
I'll leave with that.
[APPLAUSE]
May I come to this
lady here at the end?
And would you mind standing?
>>AUDIENCE: I would love it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Take a breath.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Kathy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kathy.
So Kathy, let me just
tune into around near you.
Great soul.
You're a great soul, by the way.
You really give, give, give.
You're a giver and
unfortunately, you
don't give to yourself.
You're easy giving other
people than yourself.
And I know there's someone
in a cancer condition
when they passed over.
Is that your mom who had
a cancerous condition when
she passes over?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, she did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I need to let you know
that your mother wants
to come in with enthusiasm
and happiness for you.
And she's happy
that you're here.
I feel like I'm
with a big family.
It's not a little
family, it's more
of a bigger family
than a little family.
Can you understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I also want to ask, is there
anyone named Lawrence or Larry,
or that name in any
sense in the family,
whether it's on side
of life or currently?
But there's a Larry or a
Lawrence would make sense.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Laurel.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, Laurel?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Laurel.
Who's that?
>>AUDIENCE: Our niece.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your niece.
OK, I'm not sure but this lady
is talking to me about it.
So I don't know if previously
you went around Laurel,
or you saw Laurel, or there
was-- do something with Laurel.
Is there a birthday,
by the way, coming up?
Or birthday just passed?
>>AUDIENCE: Just
passed for Laurel.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
And Laurel, right?
>>AUDIENCE: 16th.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So she's
talking to me about that.
Are you her mother or
friend or-- not mother--
I'm taking to this mother.
>>AUDIENCE: We're sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you mind
standing up as well, then,
if I bring in your mother?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm Jenny.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Jenny.
I want to talk
about, I don't know
if there are two more
of you somewhere around,
two more siblings around?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, two brothers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I understand
that because she
said there are two more
of my kids running around.
And she has a great
sense of humor.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, she did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
enthusiastic and I
like working with
her because she's not
like a, duh-- she's
really enthusiastic.
She's fun.
She's a fun lady.
She loves-- she's fun loving.
I gotta tell you that.
She loves music and she
likes to dance a little bit.
So she likes to dance here.
She's dancing, I'm going
to tell you that right now.
>>AUDIENCE: Good for you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's loving it.
She's loving it.
She wants to thank you
for helping her out
before she passes over.
And I got to thank
you for everything
you did on my behalf.
And your mother is a
lady that kind of like
does things and, blaa--
and later goes, oops,
I shouldn't have done that.
Right?
She kind of, blaa--
and then phltt.
And you kind of
cleaned up after her.
OK.
So I know that you cleaned
up some stuff after she left.
She said she left you a mess
and you cleaned up after her.
And she said--
>>AUDIENCE: She might say
that but that wasn't true.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So she
meant like figuratively.
I don't know if she
had some accounts you
had to take care of-- some
bank accounts-- and some stuff
at the house and
some home stuff.
But I'm-- go on, go on, go on.
Uh-huh.
Right.
And have you thought about
teaching or was ever a teacher,
or thought about
doing teaching work?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, very much.
Because she's telling me,
James-- she's saying James.
She's talking to me
personally, James.
You tell her that one of her
soul's gifts is teaching.
So when you were
younger, you could
have experienced
that, you could have
wanted to express
that as your soul.
And I understand
that, thank you.
The pearl earrings.
Pearl earrings.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand
about the pearl earrings?
>>AUDIENCE: I think she gave
them to me for my wedding.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, she did.
And who was the one that used
to take the photographs, liked
to take pictures all the time?
>>AUDIENCE: Me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You did.
And don't you have scrapbooks--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Of stuff?
And I know she's talking
to me about that.
And go on, go on, go on.
She was what?
She was watching you
very recently archiving.
Something about archiving
some old photographs.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you
understand that please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
She's been watching
you trying to archive
some old photographs.
Got it.
Did you keep some old newspapers
around you, or in storage?
>>AUDIENCE: Some.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Uh-huh.
Where is the storage that you
have, or the boxes in storage?
>>AUDIENCE: In the
basement probably.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hmm.
And would some of
your photographs
be in some those boxes as well?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
didn't you want
to arrange to have some of
those boxes out of the basement
and brought up to the
other part of the house,
brought upstairs or something
and looking at them.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
And I know that you
want-- she's giving
a lot about this
whole thing about I
want to put it on
DVD, or a disk.
I want to have some
stuff on a disk.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does
it make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, and
I'm going to tell you
when she passes over,
I'm very surprised.
She's very surprised
when she passes over.
And I got to tell you that.
And your dad is also
passed over, please?
>>AUDIENCE: He's on his way.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's on his way.
Because she's talking about
passing him over or helping
passing him over.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
answering your prayers.
Because you asked her
the other day, Mom, would
you please help dad over.
Does that make sense, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Because she said,
I'm here to help him,
I'm going to help him.
And I'm here with his
mother and father.
They're here, too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: As a family
there, and they're helping out.
So he's not alone.
Would you talk about to mom--
yeah, I understand that.
Got it, got it, mom.
I understand, mom.
Thank you very-- got it.
She's very-- she's
pushing in here.
I'll get it right, she said.
I will get this right.
And she said, I was with you.
You've got some
photos of me out.
I don't know if you were putting
them in front of your father
or try to get dad to
look at some photos.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who
was Catholic, please?
>>AUDIENCE: The whole family.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
And a Joseph-- Joe or Joseph.
There's a name incoming
in, Joe or Joseph.
Would you know that name please?
>>AUDIENCE: Uncle Joe.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Uncle Joe
in the spirit world?
>>AUDIENCE: I think so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Uh-huh.
Well, I know there's a Joseph or
a Joe on the other side helping
him as well.
And I want to tell you, thank
you for helping him over.
She's right there to help him.
And fresh flowers.
So I don't know if he smelled
fresh flowers or roses.
But would you
please get him roses
and put them on the
table next to him?
And tell him it's from mom.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, very good.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Will do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: We'll do
that and let him know that.
And remember the
conversation we had today
and she's right there with him.
And she's patting him
on the top of the head.
And she would do
that all the time.
That's a sign.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, wonderful.
>>AUDIENCE: Excellent.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
I'll leave you with that.
>>AUDIENCE: He keeps
scratching right here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He keeps
scratching right there
because she's tapping him
on the top of the head.
And you can tell him, that's her
tapping on the top of the head.
>>AUDIENCE: I will.
I will.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
Very, very welcome.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want
to talk to somebody
who had a lady who
took care of them
when they were a young girl.
It wasn't a parent, necessarily,
but somebody took care of them.
Like an aunt or another lady.
Does that make sense
to anybody here?
Now that's just you.
May I come to you, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, please.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And you're connected, right?
>>AUDIENCE: This is
my daughter, Karen.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Would you mind standing?
>>AUDIENCE: Of course.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I have a lady
here named Mary.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's your--
>>AUDIENCE: My grandmother
on my mother's side.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And would you know
if this lady wants
me to talk about game boards,
board games, and checkers?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And going
back to a memory when
you were a young girl and
doing these things with games.
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I also want to talk
about-- she wants
me to talk about
a watch, a watch.
So I know she used
to tell you the time,
or teach you the time.
Now I'm going to go way back now
to when you were a little girl.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And didn't you
spend a lot of time with her?
>>AUDIENCE: A lot of time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't know
if she lived at your house,
you lived with her, but--
>>AUDIENCE: Just
visited a lot, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And she taught you time,
she said, on her watch.
OK?
And I want to ask you,
did you recently start
a new school or a new
course of study please?
>>AUDIENCE: I just
became Reiki master.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You became
a Reiki master, very much,
good, good, good.
Because I know this
lady is helping you.
I know she's helping
you very, very much.
And she's very proud of you, OK?
And I know that she's
telling me about you having
a picture of an
angel around you.
So wherever you work in your
studio or wherever you work,
there must be a picture of some
kind of an angel or some angels
where you work.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: I have a framed one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes,
and you use that.
OK, great.
>>AUDIENCE: She's an artist.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are you an artist?
Oh, great.
Have you ever thought
about painting angels
or painting energy?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
that's what I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
That's what you do.
OK.
Well, there you go.
Because I know she's
influencing me to tell you that.
And this would be
this new course.
What?
Right, got it.
Oh, interesting.
So this'll be a new
course of study for you
or a way of getting into it.
Got it.
Thank you much.
Oh, I will.
Wow.
So you're a natural born healer.
Well, healer, healer.
Interesting.
Interesting, wow.
So this lady Mary is
telling me to tell you
that your soul's
expressing itself this way.
Wow, interesting.
Hold on.
I'm trying to get
this-- I'm trying
to fathom this whole thing.
She's telling me that
you're being inspired
as a medium yourself and you
might be using Reiki energy,
but guess what?
She said, you're going
to be able to help people
with the healing
modalities by the colors
that come through you
and what you paint.
And that that recently,
like two weeks ago,
that came into your mind that
that's what that was for.
Makes sense?
>>AUDIENCE: It's all coming
together, yeah, healing
and art.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Because almost like those
paintings which you put up
on the wall, or you
put right there.
If you do that during
one of your sessions,
they'll get healed by
the colors in that frame.
>>AUDIENCE: Wow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Than just
bringing in the energy this way,
the universal energy.
>>AUDIENCE: Wow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Isn't that wild?
And that just came
through with me.
So whether that person
needs those colors
in their auric field, you're
going to be knowing it.
You're going to be
inspired to receive that.
OK?
And someone had to get
some knee surgery done.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
She had a lot of
pain in her knees.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The knee surgery.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Knees.
Right.
I can walk fine now.
She can walk fine now.
And I don't know
who George might be.
>>AUDIENCE: George is my father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would that
be related to her George?
>>AUDIENCE: Her son-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
OK.
Well, I know that
I've been around--
she's been around
visiting George.
So she's been around him.
>>AUDIENCE: Excellent.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he
might be depressed
or might be down
for some reason.
And she said I'm
helping out with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Excellent.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I also want to
talk about going
to the seashore or a
sea, the water or--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, we love the sea.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I don't know if there's been
talk about you going to a--
and she's just telling
me there has been,
she's been around you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Either moving by the
sea, or visiting.
We're still--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Moving, moving.
>>AUDIENCE: Moving.
Oh my gosh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
going to find yourself
in a new scenario, new
situation, she said.
And it will be by the ocean.
>>AUDIENCE: Ah, OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: As you know,
water is very important to you,
she said.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Water is
very important to you
and pay attention to it.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
So I'll leave you with that, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
And thank you for
bringing her in.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I
want to thank you
all very much for
joining me today.
And thank you also for
joining me today here.
And it's really important
that we know that, of course,
first and foremost, that you
are a soul expressing yourself
in this human condition.
And hopefully today
through the experiences
you had today, that you will
realize that, indeed, you
are not alone and
that your soul will
go through this lifetime with
no endings, only beginnings.
And hopefully, after today,
you will express yourself
more as your soul and your
alignment with your soul.
So thank you all very much.
And love and light until
we see each other again.
Thank you.